Editorial review: Document scroll-triggered animations (#43158)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/values/animation-action/index.md

---
title: <animation-action>
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Values/animation-action
page-type: css-type
browser-compat: css.properties.animation-trigger
sidebar: cssref
---

> The **`<animation-action>`** {{glossary("enumerated")}} data type is a CSS identifier that specifies how a [triggered animation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers) should behave when its trigger is activated and deactivated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`<animation-action>`** {{glossary("enumerated")}} data type represents keyword values that specifies how a [triggered animation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers) should behave when its trigger is activated and deactivated.
```

The `<animation-action>` keyword values are used in the following properties:

- {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}}

## Syntax

> Valid `<animation-action>` values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<animation-action>` enumerated type is specified using one of the values listed below:
```

- `none`
  - : The animation will not play.
- `play`
  - : The animation will play.
- `play-forwards`

>   - : The animation will play. `play-forwards` differs from the `play` value in that it extends the effect of an {{cssxref("animation-fill-mode")}} set on the corresponding animation to before/after the trigger is activated/deactivated. The animation will play and adopt the animation's finished state once finished, if its `animation-fill-mode` is set to `forwards` or `both`.

Reviewer: this is not correct.
Also, state what the value does on it's own, not in relation to another value.

```suggestion
  - : The animation will play, setting the playback rate to forward.
```
but instead of "setting the playback rate to forward." explain what setting the playback rate to forward means, which i think might be to always play from `0%` to `100%`, but haven't fully tested

Author: I ended up changing it to "The animation will play forwards.", and moved all the other detail down to the Description section for now.

I'll be honest with you, I found it really difficult to figure out what the difference in behavior is between play and play-forwards. I did a whole bunch of testing. And the tech review didn't provide any answers. I've contacted another engineer who I think was involved in the implementation to ask for some help on this.

- `play-backwards`

>   - : The animation will play in reverse. Like `play-forwards`, it extends the effect of an {{cssxref("animation-fill-mode")}} set on the corresponding animation to before/after the trigger is activated/deactivated. The animation will play in reverse and adopt the animation's starting state once finished. It is important to note that, even if the {{cssxref("animation-iteration-count")}} is set to `infinite`, the animation will not play backwards a greater number of times than it has already played forwards. For example, if the animation has previously played forwards five times before the `play-backwards` behavior starts, it will then play backwards five times and stop.

Reviewer: same as above, but also move the "description" part to the description. This section is for quick definitions.

Author: Changed to "The animation will play in reverse.", and moved the detail down to the Description section for now.

- `play-once`

>   - : The animation will play once and then stop.

Reviewer: can be misinterpreted. It plays through all the iterations. Rather than "stop" explain that it doesn't get triggered again.

Author: Updated to "The animation will play through all its iterations and then won't be triggered again."

- `pause`

>   - : The animation will pause.

Reviewer: when?

Author: From the page intro: "...represents keyword values that specify how a [triggered animation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers) should behave when its trigger is activated and deactivated."

So, the pause happens when the trigger is activated or deactivated, depending on whether it is the first or second animation-action value specified.

I don't think I need to say when really. When the action occurs is the same case with all of the values.

- `replay`
  - : The animation will play from the start (progress `0`), regardless of where it had played to previously.
- `reset`
  - : The animation will pause, and its progress will be set back to `0`.

## Description

> When setting an {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} value on an animated element to specify the animation as a triggered animation, the value can include one or two `<animation-action>` values, separated by a space. The first value specifies the behavior of the animation when its trigger activates, while the optional second value specifies the behavior of the animation when its trigger deactivates.

Reviewer: what is trigger deactivation?

Author: trigger activation is when the subject enters the activation range, and trigger deactivation is when the subject leaves the activation range. I don't think I need to explain these here, but I could link to somewhere like https://pr43158.review.mdn.allizom.net/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers/Using_scroll-triggered_animations#adjusting_the_trigger_activation_range for more information?

If only a single value is specified, the animation doesn't change its behavior when its trigger deactivates; it will continue with the activation behavior. It has the same effect as setting `none` as the second value.

Some `<animation-action>` values are designed to be used together. For example:

- `play-forwards play-backwards` is very common when you want a UI element to "animate in" when it appears on-screen, and then "animate out" again when it goes off-screen.
- `play pause` is common for animating an element as it appears, then pausing the animation as it starts to go off-screen.

> Other values are designed to be used on their own, for example `play-once`.

Reviewer: in my tests, with view(), trigger activation occurs when the trigger enters the viewport at the block end. Trigger deactivation occurs when the trigger exits the viewport at the start end. Both can occur repeatedly, but if a play once on activation is interupted, it will not play again. And, if a play-backwards is the deactivation, it will reverse from the point the forward animation was interupted, but it can play backwards all the way through the next time the now non-playing animation is deactivated.

This section should include explanations of the values and their interactions, along with the interaction of each value with single, mulitiple, and infinite iteration counts.

Author: OK, I've done tonnes more testing today, and written my findings out on the page in detail. Does it sound OK, or do you think we should tackle this differently? If we really wanted to document all possible effect combinations, this would be hugely long, and I'm not convinced it would be that useful. People will mostly be interested in a few really common combinations.

Author: I just made some more changes after some useful input from the engineering team. I'll ask them to look at the page as well, to see what they think.

  purus dolor, vulputate ac mi eget, commodo varius odio. Suspendisse faucibus
  ipsum vel libero finibus, in placerat nibh congue. Sed iaculis, metus et
  euismod posuere, mi diam vestibulum felis, ac vulputate eros ipsum id justo.
  Etiam a tincidunt purus. Maecenas semper sed enim at blandit. Aenean ut
  sagittis lorem, eget gravida purus. Phasellus eleifend, lectus nec pulvinar
  facilisis, dui dolor feugiat odio, iaculis tempor felis est non tortor. In
  suscipit lorem efficitur molestie tempus. Integer sit amet neque et risus
  iaculis sodales sed eget diam. Quisque sodales nunc sapien, vitae lacinia ex
  luctus quis. Maecenas scelerisque scelerisque elit eu consequat. Etiam ac
  tristique tellus, sed tincidunt velit.
</p>
```

#### CSS

The `.animated` {{htmlelement("div")}} element has an `animation` applied that rotates it once. We set an `animation-trigger` value on it that references a `timeline-trigger-name` of `--t`; we also specify two `<animation-action>` values — `play-forwards` and `play-backwards` — which specify that the animation will play on activation, and play in reverse on deactivation.

> ```css hidden live-sample___basic-example

Reviewer: As per usual, i suggest putting the hidden css in a layer at the end of the example so a Play click highlights relevant code first.

Different from usual, i suggest reordering the CSS.... to actually reflect the intro paragraph. By the time i got to the feature of the page, i forgot what the CSS for that feature was....

we can start with defining the animated element's styles and the keyframe animation. Then create the viewport. Then explain the trigger part. That way the code closest to the example is relevant to the page. 

If we can change the animation to view(2em 2em) and the height of the animated element to 2em, we can omit the contain part. see https://codepen.io/estelle/pen/MYjdzoE

Author: Some good points here. I have gone through all pages in the PR, and for this example and similar ones:

- Put the feature detection "no support" banner code right down at the bottom of the source order.
- Rearranged the CSS order so that in each, the relevant code is as close to the live example as possible, and the setup code is earlier on.

I don't want to do any more extensive rearranging of the source with layers and stuff, because I think it would be a lot more effort for minimal gain, and I also think it would make the examples harder to understand and edit for future contributors.

I also don't want to make the suggested `view(2em 2em)` change, because then I'd need to explain the `2em 2em` params, which I think is harder to explain than the `contain` part.

- A {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range")}} value of [`contain`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/timeline-range-name#contain), which means that the trigger will activate when the `.trigger` `<div>` is fully inside the viewport, and deactivate when it stops being fully inside the viewport.

```css live-sample___basic-example
div.trigger {
  timeline-trigger: --t view() contain;
}
```

Next, we give the animated `<div>` a {{cssxref("position")}} of `fixed`, positioning it near the top-left of the viewport so we can see when its animation starts and stops.

```css live-sample___basic-example
div.animated {
  position: fixed;
  top: 25px;
  left: 25px;
}
```

Finally, we define the {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} for the `rotate` animation:

```css live-sample___basic-example live-sample___different-effects
@keyframes rotate {
  from {
    rotate: 0deg;
  }

  to {
    rotate: 360deg;
  }
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("basic-example", "100%", "240")}}

Try scrolling the content up. When the tracked `<div>` fully appears in the viewport, the animation will play; when it starts to leave the viewport at either edge, the animation will play in reverse.

> ### Demonstrating different `<animation-action>` effects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Comparing the `<animation-action>` values
```

> In this example we show a series of {{htmlelement("div")}} elements with the same scroll-triggered `rotate` animation applied as in the previous example, but different `<animation-action>` values. This allows you to compare and contrast the effect of the different actions.

Reviewer: Intro sentence should start with an overview of the point of the demo and how it will be achieved in a non-detailed way. something like: 
```suggestion
This example provides a comparison of the various`<animation-action>` values. By applying the same rotation animation to identical side-by-side elements, only varying the `animation-trigger` values, you can compare and contrast the effects of the different actions.
```

Reviewer: This is as far as i got

  euismod posuere, mi diam vestibulum felis, ac vulputate eros ipsum id justo.
  Etiam a tincidunt purus. Maecenas semper sed enim at blandit. Aenean ut
  sagittis lorem, eget gravida purus. Phasellus eleifend, lectus nec pulvinar
  facilisis, dui dolor feugiat odio, iaculis tempor felis est non tortor. In
  suscipit lorem efficitur molestie tempus. Integer sit amet neque et risus
  iaculis sodales sed eget diam. Quisque sodales nunc sapien, vitae lacinia ex
  luctus quis. Maecenas scelerisque scelerisque elit eu consequat. Etiam ac
  tristique tellus, sed tincidunt velit.
</p>
```

#### CSS

We set the same {{cssxref("animation")}} on each `<div>` element — we play the `rotate` animation an infinite number of times, with each iteration lasting two seconds. We also style each `<div>` to be a `50px` diameter colored circle.

```css hidden live-sample___different-effects
body {
  width: 80%;
  margin: 0 auto;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-size: 1.3rem;
}

div {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

section {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: space-between;
}

@supports not (timeline-trigger-name: --t) {
  body::before {
    font-family: sans-serif;

>     font-size: 1.3rem;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
inherits from body

Author: good point. Removed from both instances

    content: "Your browser does not support scroll-triggered animations.";
    background-color: wheat;
    position: fixed;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    top: 40%;
    text-align: center;
    padding: 1rem 0;

>     z-index: 1;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    text-align: center;
    padding: 1rem 0;
    
    z-index: 1;
    position: fixed;
    inset: 40% 0 auto;
```
changed order to make the "no support" uniform with all others across the site.
the put the "added for this unique case" at the end. See https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43857. Still need to add that to MDN guidelines

Reviewer: both of these suggestions apply to both the examples.

Author: I'll update the code on all pages in the PR.

I don't know what you mean by "the put the "added for this unique case" at the end."

Reviewer: > I don't know what you mean by "the put the "added for this unique case" at the end."

all "this browser doesn't support" have the same standard styles, but some have unique issues like needing a z-index or an inset or something. those "styles unique to this no-support statement because this particular example needs these extra styles"... put those styles after the same-in-all-support-statement styles.

Author: Ah, I get it now. Thanks! I suspect that it would make sense eventually to settle on a minimal set of styles for the not-supported banners that will work on any demo, that we can just use everywhere, for when we automate this feature detection somehow.

---
title: <animation-action>
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Values/animation-action
page-type: css-type
browser-compat: css.properties.animation-trigger.animation-action
sidebar: cssref
---

> The **`<animation-action>`** {{glossary("enumerated")}} data type is a CSS identifier that specifies how a [scroll-triggered animation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers/Using_scroll-triggered_animations) should behave when activated and deactivated.

Reviewer 2: This is not limited to Scroll-Triggered Animations, but it applies to any triggered animation.

  purus dolor, vulputate ac mi eget, commodo varius odio. Suspendisse faucibus
  ipsum vel libero finibus, in placerat nibh congue. Sed iaculis, metus et
  euismod posuere, mi diam vestibulum felis, ac vulputate eros ipsum id justo.
  Etiam a tincidunt purus. Maecenas semper sed enim at blandit. Aenean ut
  sagittis lorem, eget gravida purus. Phasellus eleifend, lectus nec pulvinar
  facilisis, dui dolor feugiat odio, iaculis tempor felis est non tortor. In
  suscipit lorem efficitur molestie tempus. Integer sit amet neque et risus
  iaculis sodales sed eget diam. Quisque sodales nunc sapien, vitae lacinia ex
  luctus quis. Maecenas scelerisque scelerisque elit eu consequat. Etiam ac
  tristique tellus, sed tincidunt velit.
</p>
```

#### CSS

The animated {{htmlelement("div")}} element has an `animation` applied that rotates it once. We set an `animation-trigger` value on it that references a `timeline-trigger-name` of `--t`; we also specify two `<animation-action>` values — `play-forwards` and `play-backwards` — which specify that the animation will play on activation, and play in reverse on deactivation.

> The trigger `<div>` element is defined as the animated `<div>`'s trigger using a `timeline-trigger` value of `--t view()`. This value includes the identifier referenced in the animated `<div>`'s `animation-trigger` property value (the `timeline-trigger-name`), associating the two together. It also includes:

Reviewer 2: Same remark as previous: it’s not the element that is the trigger. It’s the `ViewTimeline` associated with that element that is the trigger.

  luctus quis. Maecenas scelerisque scelerisque elit eu consequat. Etiam ac
  tristique tellus, sed tincidunt velit.
</p>
```

#### CSS

We set the same {{cssxref("animation")}} on each `<div>` element — we play the `rotate` animation an infinite number of times, with each iteration lastly two seconds. We also style each `<div>` to be a `50px` diameter colored circle.

```css hidden live-sample___different-effects
body {
  width: 80%;
  margin: 0 auto;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-size: 1.3rem;
}

div {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

section {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: space-between;
}

@supports not (timeline-trigger-name: --t) {
  body::before {
    font-family: sans-serif;
    font-size: 1.3rem;
    content: "Your browser does not support scroll-triggered animations.";
    background-color: wheat;
    position: fixed;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    top: 40%;
    text-align: center;
    padding: 1rem 0;
    z-index: 1;
  }
}
```

```css live-sample___different-effects
div {
  animation: rotate 2s infinite linear both;
  height: 50px;
  width: 50px;
  border: 5px solid black;
  border-radius: 50%;
  background-color: orange;
}
```

> Next, we set the `<section>` element to be an animation trigger, with a `timeline-trigger` value of `--t view() contain 20% contain 80%`. There is nothing unusual going on here, except that we've set the contained {{cssxref("timeline-trigger-activation-range")}} value to `contain 20% contain 80%`. This means that the animation will activate when the trigger has scrolled around `20%` of the way up the viewport, and deactivate when the triggered has scrolled around `80%` of the way up the viewport. This allows you to see the `<animation-action>` effects more clearly than if the activation range covered the entire viewport.

Reviewer 2: The `timeline-trigger` here simply creates a trigger. It does not set the element to which it is associated as the animation trigger.

---
title: <animation-action>
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Values/animation-action
page-type: css-type
browser-compat: css.properties.animation-trigger
sidebar: cssref
---

The **`<animation-action>`** {{glossary("enumerated")}} data type represents keyword values that specify how a [triggered animation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Animation_triggers) should behave when its trigger is activated and deactivated.

The `<animation-action>` keyword values are used in the following properties:

- {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}}

## Syntax

The `<animation-action>` enumerated type is specified using one of the the following values:

- `none`
  - : No action is specified for the animation.
- `play`

>   - : The animation will play, resume (if paused), or restart (if currently finished) in the same direction as its current direction of play. For those familiar with the [Web Animations API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Animations_API) (WAA), the behavior is equivalent to calling {{domxref("Animation.play", "play()")}} on the animation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The animation will play, resume (if paused), or restart (if currently finished) in the same direction as its current direction of play.
```
move "For those familiar with the [Web Animations API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Animations_API) (WAA), the behavior is equivalent to calling {{domxref("Animation.play", "play()")}} on the animation." to the description

Reviewer: same for all the mentions. Maybe add a section for WAA in the description, and explain them all there.

Author: Makes sense. I have added an "Equivalence with the Web Animations API" section, which does exactly that.

- `play-forwards`
  - : As `play`, except that the direction of play is adjusted if required (flipping it to forwards if the animation is currently playing backwards) so that the animation will play forwards. In WAA terms, this is equivalent to changing the {{domxref("Animation.playbackRate", "playbackRate")}} from a negative to a positive value.
- `play-backwards`
  - : As `play`, except that the direction of play is adjusted if required (flipping it to backwards if the animation is currently playing forwards) so that the animation will play in reverse.
- `play-once`
  - : As `play`, except that once the animation has played through all its iterations, it won't be triggered again. Like `play`, if an animation is paused, `play-once` will resume playing it; unlike `play`, it won't replay a finished animation.
- `pause`
  - : The animation will pause. In WAA terms, this is equivalent to calling {{domxref("Animation.pause", "pause()")}} on the animation.
- `replay`

>   - : As `play`, except that the animation is put back to the start. In WAA terms, this is equivalent to setting {{domxref("Animation.overallProgress", "overallProgress")}} to `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The animation is put back to the start, at the animation 0% progress mark, and plays from the start.
```
if there is an animation-delay, do we go thru the delay again?
is it as if we removed and reapplied the animation to the element?

Author: Yes, that is correct. I've kept the wording here as:

> As `play`, except that the animation is put back to the start.

(I've put the WAA language in the separate WAA section mentioned earlier)

- `reset`

>   - : As `pause`, except that the animation is put back to the start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The animation is put back to the start and then paused.
```
i don't think we need to mention the `pause` value.
another delay if there is one?

## Description

> When setting an {{cssxref("animation-trigger")}} value on an animated element to specify the animation as a triggered animation, the value can include one or two `<animation-action>` values, separated by a space. The first value specifies the behavior of the animation when its trigger activates, while the optional second value specifies the behavior of the animation when its trigger deactivates.

Reviewer: Let's reword/reorder this intro paragraph to highlight the animation-action data-type and make the `animation-trigger` property more secondary. B/c this data-type is only used with this one property, we don't need to de-property-ify the whole page, but we should make it so if we we add a property that uses this data-type, we wouldn't have to rewrite everything. I hope that makes sense.

Author: This doesn't require much work to fix. I've changed the wording to describe it very generally at first (in the intro and opening description paragraph), and then cited triggered animations as an example.

In the sections describing the different keyword effects in more detail, I would imagine that in the future, if a different property is introduced that uses the same type, we'd just rewrite it a bit to include some examples that use that new property.

If only a single value is specified, the animation doesn't change its behavior when its trigger deactivates; it will continue with the activation behavior. It has the same effect as setting `none` as the second value.

There are some common patterns to observe:

> - `play-forwards play-backwards` is very common when you want a UI element to "animate in" when it appears on-screen, and then "animate out" again when it goes off-screen.

Reviewer: this seems like a description of the use case for scroll driven animations. 

all three "when the trigger is scrolled into view" maybe. right now it sounds like these happened when the animated element (not necessarily the trigger) "appears on screen / goes off screen"

Author: I've updated the language to "scrolls into view" as that is better, but I don't want to start describing things here in terms of triggers, etc. These are supposed to be high-level descriptions of common use cases, so that level of precision is not required here.

- `play pause` is common for animating an element as it appears, then pausing the animation as it starts to go off-screen.
- `play-once` is often used on its own, when you want an animation to play only once when it appears on-screen.

> The behavior of the different `<animation-action>` values is described in more detail in the following sections.

Reviewer: If we include an intro phrase like this, let's be more precise about what we are introducing. maybe..

```suggestion
The eight `<animation-action>` values provide different animation behaviors. It's important to understand how they behave on their own, and the effects that can be created with different values for trigger activation and deactivation.
```

### Specifying no action

> If you want to specify that no action is to occur on activation or deactivation, you can use the `none` value.

Reviewer: is `none` a cool value to use on activation with a different value for deactivation? let's elaborate if there is something to elaborate on.

Author: No, not really. I did a bit of testing around this. I think it is only really useful if you need to remove the animation action so nothing happens at any point.

If you want to stop the animation on activation and then do something else on deactivation, `pause` is the way to go.

### Playing the animation

> To play the animation, you can use the values `play`, `play-forwards`, `play-backwards`, or `play-once`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `play`, `play-forwards`, `play-backwards`, and `play-once` keyword values will all cause the animation to play, but each one specifies a different precise behavior.
```

> #### `play`

Reviewer: This is a lot of text and code examples without much hierarchy, so maybe some grammar suggestions can help highlight the important stuff?

Author: I ended up adding all this stuff because the differences in behavior are pretty nuanced and fiddly to work out to begin with. I'm not really sure how to cut it down.

> `play` will play the animation through all its iterations. If combined with `pause`, `replay` or `reset`, for example:

Reviewer: - start with `Setting ` or similar, to start with an uppercase letting.
- include the WAA from the brief descriptions
- It's important to explain the things that aren't obvious ; such as if the animation is finished already, if there is a delay, if there are infinite iterations, if the direction is alternate, etc.
- (my example is what i see, but may not be correct)

```suggestion
Setting the `play` keyword sets the animation to play through all its iterations, as defined by the {{cssxref("animation-iteration-count")}} property. The behavior is similar to calling {{domxref("Animation.play", "play()")}} on the triggered element's animation.

When `play` is the only `<animation-action>` set on the `animation-trigger` property, it is both the activation or deactivation action. This means the trigger re-plays the animation at activation and deactivation, but if the animation is still playing when the trigger would otherwise be activated or deactivated, nothing happens; the animation that was already playing simply continues.

```css
animation-trigger: --t play;
```endcss

Here, on subsequent activation or deactivations, the animation will play again, even if the animation previously successfully concluded.
```
this is true for all the values

Author: OK, so I'm not including the WAA stuff, as that is covered in a separate section. I've not included all your changes above because they are overly wordy and, IMO, hard to understand. They are also not correct in some cases ("it is both the activation or deactivation action" is not true).

Instead, I've added something more lightweight:

> Setting `play` will play the animation through all its iterations, as defined by the {{cssxref("animation-iteration-count")}} property.
>
> If only `play` is set:
> 
> ```css
> animation-trigger: --t play;
> ```
> 
> The animation will play on activation, and then never deactivate as a deactivation action is not specified.

I've tried to repeat this minimal pattern for the other sections too.

Author: I've included "Setting" at the start of sentences so they start with a capital.

Author: I don't want to start including loads of descriptions of exactly what happens with different iteration counts, alternate, delays, etc., because that really will bloat the page, and it is basically how animations work. That stuff should just be left to the animation ref pages.

```css

> animation-trigger: --t play reset;

Reviewer: i would put all these in one code block. this page is kind of difficult to parse, and i don't htink we really need each code example as a separate example, so bunching them together may make the text more understandable. It took me a few readings to realizing reset was just an example of the three values, but that might be becasue the next sentence starts with an uppercase letter so doesn't look like a continuation of a previous thought.

Author: I don't really want to put all the examples in one code block, but I agree that the explanations are hard to parse. I think this is because they are "bitty", often put half at the start of the code line and half at the end. 

To improve things here, I've rewritten the sections so that all the explanations are put at the start of their respective lines of code, and they are simplified a bit.

```

The animation will play on activation, and then `pause`, `replay` or `reset` on deactivation. On subsequent activation, the animation will play again.

If combined with `play-backwards`, for example:

```css
animation-trigger: --t play play-backwards;
```

The animation will play on activation, then play backwards through all the iterations it previously played forwards through on deactivation.

> It doesn't make sense to combine `play` with `play-forwards` or `play-once`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When combining `play` with `play-backwards`, the animation will play on activation, then play backwards through all the iterations it previously played forwards through on deactivation:

```css
animation-trigger: --t play play-backwards;
```endcss

While valid, combining `play` with `play-once` is unnecessary, as it behaves the same as `play`. Similarly, combining `play` with `play-forwards` is unnecessary, because `play-forwards` plays the animation in the same direction as `play`, even when {{cssxref("animation-direction")}} is set to `reverse` or `alternate`.
```
let's say why (please ensure this is accurate)

If combined with `replay`:

```css
animation-trigger: --t play-once replay;
```

The animation will play on activation, and then start to play again from the beginning on deactivation. It won't go above its iteration count on any playthrough, but it will play again on subsequent deactivations because we are putting the animation back to the start each time. On subsequent activation, however, the animation will not play again.

If combined with `reset`:

```css
animation-trigger: --t play-once reset;
```

The animation will play on activation, and then reset to the beginning of the animation on deactivation. On subsequent activation, the animation will play again.

If combined with `play-backwards`, for example:

```css
animation-trigger: --t play-once play-backwards;
```

The animation will play on activation, then play backwards through all the iterations on deactivation. On subsequent activation, the animation will not play again, but you will notice that the animation will play backwards again on subsequent deactivations.

> It doesn't make sense to combine `play-once` with `play` or `play-forwards`.

Reviewer: add why

Reviewer: see below https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43158#discussion_r3469481415

i stopped editing this page at that edit.... but same feedback for the rest of the description

Author: I've explained why.

The `<animation-action>` enumerated type is specified using one of the values listed below:

> 

Reviewer: This entire section is written from a JS perspective. Are events thrown? My take was that they were more like switching animation-* property values. For example, `play-backwards` feels like `animation-direction: reverse` to me. Let's chat about this F2F today.

Author: OK, so my latest commit has actioned the stuff we talked about in our chat:

1. I've updated the animation-action descriptions so that they explain them more in CSS terms. I've also kept the web animations API descriptions as alternatives, as I think they might be helpful for some people too.
2. I've changed around the guide so that it explains an example with the animation and trigger being applied to separate elements first of all, with the "same element" example coming later on.
3. I've added your Codepen to the animation triggers module page in an "In action" section.
